doc/source/architecture.rst, before:

.. _pbm.architecture:

Architecture
********************************************************************************

.. _pbm.architecture.agent:

|pbm-agent|
================================================================================

|pbm| requires one instance of |pbm-agent| to be attached locally to each
|mongod| instance. This includes replica set nodes that are currently secondaries
and config server replica set nodes in a sharded cluster.

The backup and restore operations are triggered when the |pbm-agent| observes
updates made to the PBM control collections by the |pbm.app| CLI. In a method similar to the way replica set members elect a new primary,
the |pbm-agent| processes in the same replica set 'elect' the one to do the backup
or restore for that replica set.

.. _pbm.architecture.pbmctl:

PBM Command Line Utility (|pbm.app|)
================================================================================

|pbm.app| is the command you will use manually in the shell, and it will also
work as a command that can be executed in scripts (for example, by ``crond``).
It manages your backups through a set of sub-commands:

.. include:: .res/code-block/bash/pbm-help-output.txt

|pbm.app| modifies the PBM config by saving it in the PBM Control collection for
config values. Likewise it starts and monitors backup or restore operations by
updating and reading other PBM control collections for operations, log, etc.

|pbm.app| does not have its own config and/or cache files. Setting the
|env-pbm-mongodb-uri| environment variable in your shell is a
configuration-like step that should be done for practical ease though. (Without
|env-pbm-mongodb-uri| the |opt-mongodb-uri| command line argument will need to
be specified each time.) 

To learn how to set the ``PBM_MONGODB_URI`` environment variable, see :ref:`set-mongodbURI-pbm.CLI`. For more information about MongoDB URI connection strings, see :ref:`pbm.auth`.

.. _pbm.architecture.pbm_control_collections:

PBM Control Collections
================================================================================

The config and state (current and historical) for backups is stored in
collections in the MongoDB cluster or non-sharded replica set itself. These are
put in the system ``admin`` db of the config server replica set to keep them
cleanly separated from user db namespaces. (In a non-sharded replica set the
``admin`` db of the replica set itself is used.)

- *admin.pbmBackups* (Log / status of each backup)
- *admin.pbmConfig*
- *admin.pbmCmd* (Used to define and trigger operations)
- *admin.pbmLock* (|pbm-agent| synchronization-lock structure)
- *admin.pbmBackup* (Log / status of each backup)
- *admin.pbmLog* (Log information from all ``pbm-agents`` in the MongoDB environment. Available in |PBM| as of version 1.4.0)


The |pbm.app| command line tool creates these collections as needed. You do not
have to maintain these collections, but you should not drop them unnecessarily
either. Dropping them during a backup will cause an abort of the backup.

Filling the config collection is a prerequisite to using |PBM| for executing
backups or restores. (See config page later.)
 
.. _pbm.architecture.remote_storage:

Remote Backup Storage
================================================================================

|PBM| saves your files to a directory. Conceptually in
the case of object store; actually if you are using filesystem-type remote
storage. Using |pbm-list|, a user can scan this directory to find existing
backups even if they never used |pbm.app| on their computer before.

The files are prefixed with the (UTC) starting time of the backup. For each
backup there is one metadata file. For each replicaset in the backup:

- A mongodump-format compressed archive that is the dump of collections
- A (compressed) BSON file dump of the oplog covering the timespan of the backup.
    
The end time of the oplog slice(s) is the data-consistent point in time of a backup snapshot.

For details about supported backup storages, see :ref:`storage.config`.

.. include:: .res/replace.txt

Commit message:

PBM-478 fix: don't restore incomplete backups (#488)
The bug was with the statuses confirmation by secondary agents.
When cluster error  emitted it was returning `nil` instead of generating
error.

The same bug was in backups.

https://jira.percona.com/browse/PBM-478

doc/source/architecture.rst, after:

.. _pbm.architecture:

Architecture
********************************************************************************

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _pbm.architecture.agent:

|pbm-agent|
================================================================================

|pbm| requires one instance of |pbm-agent| to be attached locally to each
|mongod| instance. This includes replica set nodes that are currently secondaries
and config server replica set nodes in a sharded cluster.

The backup and restore operations are triggered when the |pbm-agent| observes
updates made to the PBM control collections by the |pbm.app| CLI. In a method similar to the way replica set members elect a new primary,
the |pbm-agent| processes in the same replica set 'elect' the one to do the backup
or restore for that replica set.

.. _pbm.architecture.pbmctl:

PBM Command Line Utility (|pbm.app|)
================================================================================

|pbm.app| is the command you will use manually in the shell, and it will also
work as a command that can be executed in scripts (for example, by ``crond``).
It manages your backups through a set of sub-commands:

.. include:: .res/code-block/bash/pbm-help-output.txt

|pbm.app| modifies the PBM config by saving it in the PBM Control collection for
config values. Likewise, it starts and monitors backup or restore operations by
updating and reading other PBM control collections for operations, log, etc.

|pbm.app| does not have its own config and/or cache files. Setting the
|env-pbm-mongodb-uri| environment variable in your shell is a
configuration-like step that should be done for practical ease though. (Without
|env-pbm-mongodb-uri| the |opt-mongodb-uri| command line argument will need to
be specified each time.) 

To learn how to set the ``PBM_MONGODB_URI`` environment variable, see :ref:`set-mongodbURI-pbm.CLI`. For more information about MongoDB URI connection strings, see :ref:`pbm.auth`.

.. _pbm.architecture.pbm_control_collections:

PBM Control Collections
================================================================================

The config and state (current and historical) for backups is stored in
collections in the MongoDB cluster or non-sharded replica set itself. These are
put in the system ``admin`` db of the config server replica set to keep them
cleanly separated from user db namespaces. (In a non-sharded replica set the
``admin`` db of the replica set itself is used.)


- *admin.pbmBackups* - Log / status of each backup
- *admin.pbmAgents* - Contains information about ``pbm-agents`` statuses and health
- *admin.pbmConfig* - Contains configuration information for |PBM|
- *admin.pbmCmd* - Is used to define and trigger operations
- *admin.pbmLock* - |pbm-agent| synchronization-lock structure
- *admin.pbmLockOp* - Is used to coordinate operations that are not mutually-exclusive such as make backup and delete backup.
- *admin.pbmLog* - Stores log information from all ``pbm-agents`` in the MongoDB environment. Available in |PBM| as of version 1.4.0
- *admin.pbmOpLog* - Stores :term:`operation IDs <OpID>`
- *admin.pbmPITRChunks* - Stores :term:`Point-in-Time Recovery` oplog slices
- *admin.pbmPITRState* - Contains current state of |PITR| incremental backups
- *admin.pbmRestores* - Contains restore history and the restore state for all replica sets
- *admin.pbmStatus* - Stores |PBM| status records

The |pbm.app| command line tool creates these collections as needed. You do not
have to maintain these collections, but you should not drop them unnecessarily
either. Dropping them during a backup will cause an abort of the backup.

Filling the config collection is a prerequisite to using |PBM| for executing
backups or restores. (See config page later.)
 
.. _pbm.architecture.remote_storage:

Remote Backup Storage
================================================================================

|PBM| saves your files to a directory. Conceptually in
the case of object store; actually if you are using filesystem-type remote
storage. Using |pbm-list|, a user can scan this directory to find existing
backups even if they never used |pbm.app| on their computer before.

The files are prefixed with the (UTC) starting time of the backup. For each
backup there is one metadata file. For each replicaset in the backup:

- A mongodump-format compressed archive that is the dump of collections
- A (compressed) BSON file dump of the oplog covering the timespan of the backup.
    
The end time of the oplog slice(s) is the data-consistent point in time of a backup snapshot.

For details about supported backup storages, see :ref:`storage.config`.

.. include:: .res/replace.txt
