doc/source/configuration-options.rst, before:

.. _pbm.config.options:

Configuration file options
********************************************************************************

This page describes configuration file options available in |PBM|. For how to use configuration file, see :ref:`pbm.config`.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _pbm.storage.config.options:

Remote backup storage options
============================================================================

|PBM| supports the following types of remote storages: 
- S3-compatible storage,
- `Microsoft Azure Blob storage <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction>`_, and 
- filesystem. 

|PBM| should work with other S3-compatible storage but was only tested with the following ones: 

- `Amazon Simple Storage Service <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/s3/index.html>`_, 
- `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage>`_, 
- `MinIO <https://min.io/>`_.

.. option:: storage.type
   
   :type: string
   :required: YES

   Remote backup storage type. Supported values: s3, filesystem, azure.

S3 type storage options
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

   storage:
     type: s3
     s3:
       region: <string>
       bucket: <string>
       prefix: <string>
       credentials:
         access-key-id: <your-access-key-id-here>
         secret-access-key: <your-secret-key-here>
       serverSideEncryption:
         sseAlgorithm: aws:kms
         kmsKeyID: <your-kms-key-here>

.. option:: storage.s3.provider
   
   :type: string
   :required: NO
   
   The storage provider's name. Supported values: aws, gcs
   
.. option:: storage.s3.bucket
  
   :type: string
   :required: YES

   The name of the storage :term:`bucket <Bucket>`. See the `AWS Bucket naming rules <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/BucketRestrictions.html#bucketnamingrules>`_ and `GCS bucket naming guidelines <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/naming-buckets#requirements>`_ for bucket name requirements

.. option:: storage.s3.region

   :type: string
   :required: YES (for AWS and GCS)
  
   The location of the storage bucket. 
   Use the `AWS region list <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#s3_region>`_ and `GCS region list <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/locations>`_ to define the bucket region
   
.. option:: storage.s3.prefix

   :type: string
   :required: NO
   
   The path to the data directory on the bucket. If undefined, backups are stored in the bucket root directory

.. option:: storage.s3.endpointUrl

   :type: string
   :required: YES (for MinIO and GCS)

   The URL to access the bucket. The default value for GCS is ``https://storage.googleapis.com``

.. option:: storage.s3.credentials.access-key-id

   :type: string
   :required: YES
   
   Your access key to the storage bucket
   
.. option:: storage.s3.credentials.secret-access-key

  :type: string
  :required: YES
  
  The key to sign your programmatic requests to the storage bucket 

.. option:: storage.s3.uploadPartSize
    
   :type: int
   :required: NO
  
   The size of data chunks in bytes to be uploaded to the storage bucket. Default: 10MB
       
   |PBM| automatically increases the ``uploadPartSize`` value if the size of the file to be uploaded exceeds the max allowed file size. (The max allowed file size is calculated with the default values of uploadPartSize * `maxUploadParts <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/service/s3/s3manager/#pkg-constants>`_ and is appr. 97,6 GB).

   The ``uploadPartSize`` value is printed in the :ref:`pbm-agent log <pbm-agent.log>`.

   By setting this option, you can manually adjust the size of data chunks if |PBM| failed to do it for some reason. The defined ``uploadPartSize`` value overrides the default value and is used for calculating the max allowed file size

.. rubric:: Server-side encryption options

.. option:: serverSideEncryption.sseAlgorythm
   
   :type: string
  
   The key management mode used for server-side encryption 

   Supported value: ``aws:kms``
   
.. option:: serverSideEncryption.kmsKeyID
     
   :type: string
  
   Your customer-managed key

Filesystem storage options
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

   storage:
     type: filesystem
     filesystem:
       path: <string>

.. option:: storage.filesystem.path

   :type: string
   :required: YES
   
   The path to the backup directory

Microsoft Azure Blob storage options
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

   storage:
     type: azure
     azure:
       account: <string>
       container: <string>
       prefix: <string>
       credentials:
         key: <your-access-key>

.. option:: storage.azure.account  

   :type: string      
   :required: YES

   The name of your storage account. 

.. option:: storage.azure.container  

   :type: string      
   :required: YES

   The name of the storage :term:`container <Container>`. See the  `Container names <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/naming-and-referencing-containers--blobs--and-metadata#container-names>`_ for naming conventions.

.. option:: storage.azure.prefix  

   :type: string      
   :required: NO

   The path (sub-folder) to the backups inside the container. If undefined, backups are stored in the container root directory.

.. option:: storage.azure.credentials.key  

   :type: string      
   :required: YES

   Your access key to authorize access to data in your storage account. 

.. _pitr.config:

Point-in-time recovery options
=================================================================================

.. code-block:: yaml

   pitr:
     enabled: <boolean> 
     oplogSpanMin: <float64>

.. option:: pitr.enabled
  
   :type: boolean
   
   Enables point-in-time recovery


.. option:: pitr.oplogSpanMin

   :type: float64
   :default: 10

   The duration of an oplog span in minutes. If set when the |pbm-agent| is making an oplog slice, the slice’s span is updated right away.

   If the new duration is smaller than the previous one, the |pbm-agent| is triggered to save a new slice with the updated span. If the duration is larger, then the next slice is saved with the updated span in scheduled time.  

.. _backup-config:
.. _backup-options:

Backup options
===================================================


.. code-block:: yaml

   backup:
     priority:
       "localhost:28019": 2.5
       "localhost:27018": 2.5
       "localhost:27020": 2.0
       "localhost:27017": 0.1

.. option:: priority

   :type: array of strings

   The list of ``mongod`` nodes and their priority for making backups. The node with the highest priority is elected for making a backup. If several nodes have the same priority, the one among them is randomly elected to make a backup. 

   If not set, the replica set nodes have the default priority as follows: 

   - hidden nodes - 2.0, 
   - secondary nodes - 1.0, 
   - primary node - 0.5. 

.. _restore.config:

Restore options
=================================================================================

.. code-block:: yaml

   restore:
     batchSize: <int>
     numInsertionWorkers: <int>

.. option:: batchSize
   
   :type: int
   :default: 500

   The number of documents to buffer. 

.. option:: numInsertionWorkers 

   :type: int
   :default: 10

   The number of workers that add the documents to buffer.      
       
.. include:: .res/replace.txt

Commit message:

PBM-740 Doc: Support for EC2 metadat (#610)
a for authentication to S3

new file:   source/automate-s3-access.rst
	modified:   source/configuration-options.rst
	modified:   source/index.rst

doc/source/configuration-options.rst, after:

.. _pbm.config.options:

Configuration file options
********************************************************************************

This page describes configuration file options available in |PBM|. For how to use configuration file, see :ref:`pbm.config`.

.. contents::
   :local:

.. _pbm.storage.config.options:

Remote backup storage options
============================================================================

|PBM| supports the following types of remote storages: 
- S3-compatible storage,
- `Microsoft Azure Blob storage <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction>`_, and 
- filesystem. 

|PBM| should work with other S3-compatible storage but was only tested with the following ones: 

- `Amazon Simple Storage Service <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/s3/index.html>`_, 
- `Google Cloud Storage <https://cloud.google.com/storage>`_, 
- `MinIO <https://min.io/>`_.

.. option:: storage.type
   
   :type: string
   :required: YES

   Remote backup storage type. Supported values: s3, filesystem, azure.

S3 type storage options
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

   storage:
     type: s3
     s3:
       region: <string>
       bucket: <string>
       prefix: <string>
       credentials:
         access-key-id: <your-access-key-id-here>
         secret-access-key: <your-secret-key-here>
       serverSideEncryption:
         sseAlgorithm: aws:kms
         kmsKeyID: <your-kms-key-here>

.. option:: storage.s3.provider
   
   :type: string
   :required: NO
   
   The storage provider's name. Supported values: aws, gcs
   
.. option:: storage.s3.bucket
  
   :type: string
   :required: YES

   The name of the storage :term:`bucket <Bucket>`. See the `AWS Bucket naming rules <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/BucketRestrictions.html#bucketnamingrules>`_ and `GCS bucket naming guidelines <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/naming-buckets#requirements>`_ for bucket name requirements

.. option:: storage.s3.region

   :type: string
   :required: YES (for AWS and GCS)
  
   The location of the storage bucket. 
   Use the `AWS region list <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/rande.html#s3_region>`_ and `GCS region list <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/locations>`_ to define the bucket region
   
.. option:: storage.s3.prefix

   :type: string
   :required: NO
   
   The path to the data directory on the bucket. If undefined, backups are stored in the bucket root directory

.. option:: storage.s3.endpointUrl

   :type: string
   :required: YES (for MinIO and GCS)

   The URL to access the bucket. The default value for GCS is ``https://storage.googleapis.com``

.. option:: storage.s3.credentials.access-key-id

   :type: string
   :required: YES
   
   Your access key to the storage bucket. This option can be ommitted when you run |PBM| using an EC2 instance profile. To learn more, refer to :ref:`automate-s3-access`
   
.. option:: storage.s3.credentials.secret-access-key

  :type: string
  :required: YES
  
  The key to sign your programmatic requests to the storage bucket. This option can be ommitted when you run |PBM| using an EC2 instance profile. To learn more, refer to :ref:`automate-s3-access` 

.. option:: storage.s3.uploadPartSize
    
   :type: int
   :required: NO
  
   The size of data chunks in bytes to be uploaded to the storage bucket. Default: 10MB
       
   |PBM| automatically increases the ``uploadPartSize`` value if the size of the file to be uploaded exceeds the max allowed file size. (The max allowed file size is calculated with the default values of uploadPartSize * `maxUploadParts <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-go/api/service/s3/s3manager/#pkg-constants>`_ and is appr. 97,6 GB).

   The ``uploadPartSize`` value is printed in the :ref:`pbm-agent log <pbm-agent.log>`.

   By setting this option, you can manually adjust the size of data chunks if |PBM| failed to do it for some reason. The defined ``uploadPartSize`` value overrides the default value and is used for calculating the max allowed file size

.. rubric:: Server-side encryption options

.. option:: serverSideEncryption.sseAlgorythm
   
   :type: string
  
   The key management mode used for server-side encryption 

   Supported value: ``aws:kms``
   
.. option:: serverSideEncryption.kmsKeyID
     
   :type: string
  
   Your customer-managed key

Filesystem storage options
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

   storage:
     type: filesystem
     filesystem:
       path: <string>

.. option:: storage.filesystem.path

   :type: string
   :required: YES
   
   The path to the backup directory

Microsoft Azure Blob storage options
-------------------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml

   storage:
     type: azure
     azure:
       account: <string>
       container: <string>
       prefix: <string>
       credentials:
         key: <your-access-key>

.. option:: storage.azure.account  

   :type: string      
   :required: YES

   The name of your storage account. 

.. option:: storage.azure.container  

   :type: string      
   :required: YES

   The name of the storage :term:`container <Container>`. See the  `Container names <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/storageservices/naming-and-referencing-containers--blobs--and-metadata#container-names>`_ for naming conventions.

.. option:: storage.azure.prefix  

   :type: string      
   :required: NO

   The path (sub-folder) to the backups inside the container. If undefined, backups are stored in the container root directory.

.. option:: storage.azure.credentials.key  

   :type: string      
   :required: YES

   Your access key to authorize access to data in your storage account. 

.. _pitr.config:

Point-in-time recovery options
=================================================================================

.. code-block:: yaml

   pitr:
     enabled: <boolean> 
     oplogSpanMin: <float64>

.. option:: pitr.enabled
  
   :type: boolean
   
   Enables point-in-time recovery


.. option:: pitr.oplogSpanMin

   :type: float64
   :default: 10

   The duration of an oplog span in minutes. If set when the |pbm-agent| is making an oplog slice, the slice’s span is updated right away.

   If the new duration is smaller than the previous one, the |pbm-agent| is triggered to save a new slice with the updated span. If the duration is larger, then the next slice is saved with the updated span in scheduled time.  

.. _backup-config:
.. _backup-options:

Backup options
===================================================


.. code-block:: yaml

   backup:
     priority:
       "localhost:28019": 2.5
       "localhost:27018": 2.5
       "localhost:27020": 2.0
       "localhost:27017": 0.1

.. option:: priority

   :type: array of strings

   The list of ``mongod`` nodes and their priority for making backups. The node with the highest priority is elected for making a backup. If several nodes have the same priority, the one among them is randomly elected to make a backup. 

   If not set, the replica set nodes have the default priority as follows: 

   - hidden nodes - 2.0, 
   - secondary nodes - 1.0, 
   - primary node - 0.5. 

.. _restore.config:

Restore options
=================================================================================

.. code-block:: yaml

   restore:
     batchSize: <int>
     numInsertionWorkers: <int>

.. option:: batchSize
   
   :type: int
   :default: 500

   The number of documents to buffer. 

.. option:: numInsertionWorkers 

   :type: int
   :default: 10

   The number of workers that add the documents to buffer.      
       
.. include:: .res/replace.txt
