.. _pbm.config:

|pbm| config in a Cluster (or Non-sharded Replicaset)
********************************************************************************

The config information is stored in a single document of the *admin.pbmConfig*
collection. That single copy is shared by all the |pbm-agent| processes in a
cluster (or non-sharded replicaset), and can be read or updated using the
|pbm.app| tool.

In short: you can see the whole config by running
*db.getSiblingDB("admin").pbmConfig.findOne()*. But you don't have to use the
mongo shell; the |pbm.app| CLI has a "config" subcommand to read and update it.

As of v1.0 or v1.1 the config only contains the remote storage information.

.. _pbm.config.initialize:

Insert the whole |pbm| Config from a YAML file
================================================================================

If you are initializing a cluster or non-sharded replicaset for the first time
it is simplest to write the whole config as YAML file and use the
|pbm-config-file-set| method to upload all the values in one command.

.. include:: .res/code-block/bash/pbm-config-file-set.txt

Execute whilst connecting to config server replicaset if it is
cluster. Otherwise just connect to the non-sharded replica set as normal. (See
:ref:`pbm.auth.mdb_conn_string` if you are not familiar with MongoDB connection
strings yet.)

Run |pbm-config-list| to see the whole config. (Sensitive fields such as keys
will be redacted.)

.. _pbm.config.example_yaml:

Example config files
================================================================================

.. rubric:: S3-compatible remote storage

Amazon Simple Storage Service

.. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-amazon-s3-storage.yaml

Minio

.. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-minio-s3-storage.yaml

.. rubric:: Locally-mounted Filesystem Storage

This storage is expected to be a remote fileserver mounted to a local
directory. PBM uses the directory as if it was any normal directory, however,
and does not attempt to confirm it is mounted from a remote server. It is the
obligation of the server administrators to ensure that all the mongod-hosting
servers have the remote backup server's directory mounted at the same local
directory path.

.. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-local-file-system-store.yaml

.. rubric:: Accessing or updating single config values

You can set a single value at time. For nested values use dot-concatenated key
names as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pbm config --set storage.s3.bucket="operator-testing"

To list a single value you can specify just the key name by itself and the value
will be returned (if set)

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pbm config storage.s3.bucket
   operator-testing
   $ pbm config storage.s3.INVALID-KEY
   Error: unable to get config key: invalid config key

.. include:: .res/replace.txt
