doc/source/initial-setup.rst, before:

.. _initial-setup:

Initial setup   
****************************************************************

After you’ve installed |pbm-agent| on every server with a ``mongod`` node that is not an arbiter node, perform initial setup to run |PBM|.

The setup steps are the following:

1. Configure authentication in MongoDB
#. Use ``pbm CLI`` to insert the config information for remote backup storage
#. Start |pbm-agent| process
 	
.. contents::
   :local:

Configure authentication in MongoDB
================================================================================

|pbm| has no authentication and authorization subsystem of its own - it uses
the one of MongoDB. This means that to authenticate |pbm|, you need to create a corresponding ``pbm`` user in the ``admin`` database and set a valid MongoDB connection URI string for both |pbm-agent| and |pbm.app|.

.. _pbm.auth.create_pbm_user:

Create the ``pbm`` user
---------------------------------------

First create the role that allows any action on any resource. 

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.getSiblingDB("admin").createRole({ "role": "pbmAnyAction",
         "privileges": [
            { "resource": { "anyResource": true },
              "actions": [ "anyAction" ]
            }
         ],
         "roles": []
      });

Then create the user and assign the role you created to it. 

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.getSiblingDB("admin").createUser({user: "pbmuser",
          "pwd": "secretpwd",
          "roles" : [
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "readWrite", "collection": "" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "backup" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "clusterMonitor" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "restore" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "pbmAnyAction" }
          ]
       });

You can specify username and password values and other options of the ``createUser`` command as you require so long as the roles shown above are granted.

Create the ``pbm`` user on every replica set. In a sharded cluster, this means every shard replica set and the config server replica set.

.. note::

   In a cluster run `db.getSiblingDB("config").shards.find({}, {"host": true,
   "_id": false})` to list all the host+port lists for the shard
   replica sets. The replica set name at the *front* of these "host" strings will
   have to be placed as a "/?replicaSet=xxxx" argument in the parameters part
   of the connection URI (see below).

Set the MongoDB connection URI for ``pbm-agent``
------------------------------------------------------------------

A |pbm-agent| process connects to its localhost ``mongod`` node with a standalone type of connection. To set the MongoDB URI connection string means to configure a service init script (:file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file) that runs a |pbm-agent|.

The :file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file includes the environment file. You set the MongoDB URI connection string for the  "PBM_MONGODB_URI" variable within the environment file.

The environment file for Debian and Ubuntu is :file:`/etc/default/pbm-agent`. For Redhat and CentOS, it is :file:`/etc/sysconfig/pbm-agent`. 

Edit the environment file and specify MongoDB connection URI string for the ``pbm`` user to the local ``mongod`` node. For example, if ``mongod`` node listens on port 27018, the MongoDB connection URI string will be the following:

.. code-block:: bash

   PBM_MONGODB_URI="mongodb://pbmuser:secretpwd@localhost:27018"

Configure the service init script for every |pbm-agent|. 

.. hint:: How to find the environment file

   The path to the environment file is specified in the :file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file. 

   In Ubuntu and Debian, the :file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file is at the path :file:`/lib/systemd/system/pbm-agent.service`. 

   In Red Hat and CentOS, the path to this
   file is :file:`/usr/lib/systemd/system/pbm-agent.service`.
       
   .. admonition:: Example of pbm-agent.service systemd unit file  

      .. include:: .res/code-block/bash/systemd-unit-file.txt    

.. seealso::

   More information about standard MongoDB connection strings
      :ref:`pbm.auth`

.. _set-mongodbURI-pbm.CLI: 

Set the MongoDB connection URI for ``pbm CLI``
------------------------------------------------------------------

Provide the MongoDB URI connection string for |pbm.app| in your shell. This allows you to call |pbm.app| commands without the :option:`--mongodb-uri` flag.

Use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash
 
   export PBM_MONGODB_URI="mongodb://pbmuser:secretpwd@localhost:27018?/replSetName=xxxx"

For more information what connection string to specify, refer to :ref:`pbm.auth.pbm.app_conn_string` section.

Configure remote backup storage
==================================

The easiest way to provide remote backup storage configuration is to specify it in a YAML config file and upload this file to |PBM| using ``pbm CLI``.

The storage configuration itself is out of scope of the present document. We assume that you have configured one of the :ref:`supported remote backup storages <storage.config>`.

1. Create a config file (e.g. :file:`pbm_config.yaml`).
2. Specify the storage information within. 
   
   The following is the sample configuration for Amazon AWS:
   
   .. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-amazon-s3-storage.yaml
   
   This is the sample configuration for filesystem storage:

   .. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-local-file-system-store.yaml

   .. important::

      When using a filesystem storage, verify that the user running |PBM| is the owner of the backup folder.

      .. code-block:: bash
      
         $ sudo chown pbm:pbm <backup_directory>

   See more examples in :ref:`pbm.config.example_yaml`.

3. Insert the config file
   
   .. code-block:: bash

      $ pbm config --file pbm_config.yaml 

   For a sharded cluster, run this command whilst connecting to config server replica set. Otherwise connect to the non-sharded replica set as normal. 

To learn more about |PBM| configuration, see :ref:`pbm.config`.
 
Start the |pbm-agent| process
==================================

Start |pbm-agent| on every server with the ``mongod`` node installed. It is best to use the packaged service scripts to run |pbm-agent|. 

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo systemctl start pbm-agent
   $ sudo systemctl status pbm-agent

E.g. Imagine you put configsvr nodes (listen port 27019) collocated on the same
servers as the first shard's ``mongod`` nodes (listen port 27018, replica set name
"sh1rs"). In this server there should be two 
|pbm-agent| processes, one connected to the shard
(e.g. "mongodb://username:password@localhost:27018/") and one to the configsvr
node (e.g. "mongodb://username:password@localhost:27019/").

For reference, the following is an example of starting |pbm-agent| manually. The
output is redirected to a file and the process is backgrounded. Alternatively
you can run it on a shell terminal temporarily if you want to observe and/or
debug the startup from the log messages.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ nohup pbm-agent --mongodb-uri "mongodb://username:password@localhost:27018/" > /data/mdb_node_xyz/pbm-agent.$(hostname -s).27018.log 2>&1 &

.. tip::
   
   Running as the ``mongod`` user would be the most intuitive and convenient way.
   But if you want it can be another user.

.. _pbm-agent.log:

How to see the pbm-agent log
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the packaged systemd service, the log output to stdout is captured by
systemd's default redirection to systemd-journald. You can view it with the
command below. See :command:`man journalctl` for useful options such as '--lines',
'--follow', etc.

.. code-block:: bash

   ~$ journalctl -u pbm-agent.service
   -- Logs begin at Tue 2019-10-22 09:31:34 JST. --
   Jan 22 15:59:14 akira-x1 systemd[1]: Started pbm-agent.
   Jan 22 15:59:14 akira-x1 pbm-agent[3579]: pbm agent is listening for the commands
   ...
   ...

If you started |pbm-agent| manually, see the file you redirected stdout and stderr
to.

When a message *"pbm agent is listening for the commands"* is printed to the
|pbm-agent| log file, it confirms that it has connected to its ``mongod`` node successfully.


.. include:: .res/replace.txt

Commit message:

PBM-596 Doc: Azure storage support
modified:   source/configuration-options.rst
	modified:   source/initial-setup.rst
	modified:   source/storage-configuration.rst

doc/source/initial-setup.rst, after:

.. _initial-setup:

Initial setup   
****************************************************************

After you’ve installed |pbm-agent| on every server with a ``mongod`` node that is not an arbiter node, perform initial setup to run |PBM|.

The setup steps are the following:

1. Configure authentication in MongoDB
#. Use ``pbm CLI`` to insert the config information for remote backup storage
#. Start |pbm-agent| process
 	
.. contents::
   :local:

Configure authentication in MongoDB
================================================================================

|pbm| has no authentication and authorization subsystem of its own - it uses
the one of MongoDB. This means that to authenticate |pbm|, you need to create a corresponding ``pbm`` user in the ``admin`` database and set a valid MongoDB connection URI string for both |pbm-agent| and |pbm.app|.

.. _pbm.auth.create_pbm_user:

Create the ``pbm`` user
---------------------------------------

First create the role that allows any action on any resource. 

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.getSiblingDB("admin").createRole({ "role": "pbmAnyAction",
         "privileges": [
            { "resource": { "anyResource": true },
              "actions": [ "anyAction" ]
            }
         ],
         "roles": []
      });

Then create the user and assign the role you created to it. 

.. code-block:: javascript

   db.getSiblingDB("admin").createUser({user: "pbmuser",
          "pwd": "secretpwd",
          "roles" : [
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "readWrite", "collection": "" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "backup" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "clusterMonitor" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "restore" },
             { "db" : "admin", "role" : "pbmAnyAction" }
          ]
       });

You can specify username and password values and other options of the ``createUser`` command as you require so long as the roles shown above are granted.

Create the ``pbm`` user on every replica set. In a sharded cluster, this means every shard replica set and the config server replica set.

.. note::

   In a cluster run `db.getSiblingDB("config").shards.find({}, {"host": true,
   "_id": false})` to list all the host+port lists for the shard
   replica sets. The replica set name at the *front* of these "host" strings will
   have to be placed as a "/?replicaSet=xxxx" argument in the parameters part
   of the connection URI (see below).

Set the MongoDB connection URI for ``pbm-agent``
------------------------------------------------------------------

A |pbm-agent| process connects to its localhost ``mongod`` node with a standalone type of connection. To set the MongoDB URI connection string means to configure a service init script (:file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file) that runs a |pbm-agent|.

The :file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file includes the environment file. You set the MongoDB URI connection string for the  "PBM_MONGODB_URI" variable within the environment file.

The environment file for Debian and Ubuntu is :file:`/etc/default/pbm-agent`. For Redhat and CentOS, it is :file:`/etc/sysconfig/pbm-agent`. 

Edit the environment file and specify MongoDB connection URI string for the ``pbm`` user to the local ``mongod`` node. For example, if ``mongod`` node listens on port 27018, the MongoDB connection URI string will be the following:

.. code-block:: bash

   PBM_MONGODB_URI="mongodb://pbmuser:secretpwd@localhost:27018"

Configure the service init script for every |pbm-agent|. 

.. hint:: How to find the environment file

   The path to the environment file is specified in the :file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file. 

   In Ubuntu and Debian, the :file:`pbm-agent.service` systemd unit file is at the path :file:`/lib/systemd/system/pbm-agent.service`. 

   In Red Hat and CentOS, the path to this
   file is :file:`/usr/lib/systemd/system/pbm-agent.service`.
       
   .. admonition:: Example of pbm-agent.service systemd unit file  

      .. include:: .res/code-block/bash/systemd-unit-file.txt    

.. seealso::

   More information about standard MongoDB connection strings
      :ref:`pbm.auth`

.. _set-mongodbURI-pbm.CLI: 

Set the MongoDB connection URI for ``pbm CLI``
------------------------------------------------------------------

Provide the MongoDB URI connection string for |pbm.app| in your shell. This allows you to call |pbm.app| commands without the :option:`--mongodb-uri` flag.

Use the following command:

.. code-block:: bash
 
   export PBM_MONGODB_URI="mongodb://pbmuser:secretpwd@localhost:27018?/replSetName=xxxx"

For more information what connection string to specify, refer to :ref:`pbm.auth.pbm.app_conn_string` section.

Configure remote backup storage
==================================

The easiest way to provide remote backup storage configuration is to specify it in a YAML config file and upload this file to |PBM| using ``pbm CLI``.

The storage configuration itself is out of scope of the present document. We assume that you have configured one of the :ref:`supported remote backup storages <storage.config>`.

1. Create a config file (e.g. :file:`pbm_config.yaml`).
2. Specify the storage information within. 
   
   The following is the sample configuration for Amazon AWS:
   
   .. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-amazon-s3-storage.yaml
   
   This is the sample configuration for Microsoft Azure Blob storage:

   .. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-azure-storage.yaml

   This is the sample configuration for filesystem storage:

   .. include:: .res/code-block/yaml/example-local-file-system-store.yaml

   .. important::

      When using a filesystem storage, verify that the user running |PBM| is the owner of the backup folder.

      .. code-block:: bash
      
         $ sudo chown pbm:pbm <backup_directory>

   See more examples in :ref:`pbm.config.example_yaml`.

3. Insert the config file
   
   .. code-block:: bash

      $ pbm config --file pbm_config.yaml 

   For a sharded cluster, run this command whilst connecting to config server replica set. Otherwise connect to the non-sharded replica set as normal. 

To learn more about |PBM| configuration, see :ref:`pbm.config`.
 
Start the |pbm-agent| process
==================================

Start |pbm-agent| on every server with the ``mongod`` node installed. It is best to use the packaged service scripts to run |pbm-agent|. 

.. code-block:: bash

   $ sudo systemctl start pbm-agent
   $ sudo systemctl status pbm-agent

E.g. Imagine you put configsvr nodes (listen port 27019) collocated on the same
servers as the first shard's ``mongod`` nodes (listen port 27018, replica set name
"sh1rs"). In this server there should be two 
|pbm-agent| processes, one connected to the shard
(e.g. "mongodb://username:password@localhost:27018/") and one to the configsvr
node (e.g. "mongodb://username:password@localhost:27019/").

For reference, the following is an example of starting |pbm-agent| manually. The
output is redirected to a file and the process is backgrounded. Alternatively
you can run it on a shell terminal temporarily if you want to observe and/or
debug the startup from the log messages.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ nohup pbm-agent --mongodb-uri "mongodb://username:password@localhost:27018/" > /data/mdb_node_xyz/pbm-agent.$(hostname -s).27018.log 2>&1 &

.. tip::
   
   Running as the ``mongod`` user would be the most intuitive and convenient way.
   But if you want it can be another user.

.. _pbm-agent.log:

How to see the pbm-agent log
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

With the packaged systemd service, the log output to stdout is captured by
systemd's default redirection to systemd-journald. You can view it with the
command below. See :command:`man journalctl` for useful options such as '--lines',
'--follow', etc.

.. code-block:: bash

   ~$ journalctl -u pbm-agent.service
   -- Logs begin at Tue 2019-10-22 09:31:34 JST. --
   Jan 22 15:59:14 akira-x1 systemd[1]: Started pbm-agent.
   Jan 22 15:59:14 akira-x1 pbm-agent[3579]: pbm agent is listening for the commands
   ...
   ...

If you started |pbm-agent| manually, see the file you redirected stdout and stderr
to.

When a message *"pbm agent is listening for the commands"* is printed to the
|pbm-agent| log file, it confirms that it has connected to its ``mongod`` node successfully.


.. include:: .res/replace.txt
