.. _release-notes-5.0:

|pbm| |release|
********************************************************************************

|percona| is pleased to announce the early release of |pbm| |release| of our
latest software product on |date|. The GA version of |pbm| is scheduled to
be released later in 2019.

|pbm| is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of |mongodb|
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent
backups across a |mongodb| sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for
restoring those backups to a specific point in time. |pbm|
uses a distributed client/server architecture to perform backup/restore
actions.

The project was inspired by (and intends to replace) the
`Percona-Lab/mongodb_consistent_backup tool
<https://github.com/Percona-Lab/mongodb_consistent_backup>`_.

|pbm| supports |psmdb| or |mongodb| Community Server version 3.6 or higher with
|mongodb| replication enabled. Binaries for the supported platforms as well as
the tarball with source code are available from the Percona Backup for MongoDB
download page
<https://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-backup-mongodb/LATEST/>`_. For more
information about |pbm| and the installation steps, see the `documentation
<https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-backup-mongodb>`_.

|pbm| |release| features the following:

- Enables storing backup metadata on |amazon-s3| storages.
- The API of |pbm| introduces HTTP basic authentication to prevent an
  unauthorized user from running backups or restoring data if they manage to
  access the API port.
- To optimize the usage of network resources, the pbm-agent on ``mongos`` is not
  needed any more and |backup-coordinator| automatically establishes connection
  to the appropriate ``mongos`` instance.
- The output of ``pbmctl list nodes`` now includes the replica set name and
  informs the backup status of the node.

|percona| doesn’t recommend this release for production as its API
and configuration fields are still likely to change. It only features
a basic API level security. Please report any bugs you encounter in
`our bug tracking system <https://jira.percona.com>`_.

New Features and Improvements
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`93`: Support storage of backup metadata on AWS S3.
- :jirabug:`99`: |pbm-agent| is deprecated on ``mongos``.
- :jirabug:`105`: Log a warning if a Primary node-type is used for a backup
- :jirabug:`122`: Include the replica set name to the output of ``pmbctl list
  nodes``
- :jirabug:`130`: Add HTTP Basic Authentication to gRPC servers (API and RPC)
- :jirabug:`139`: Support listing backup status in the output of ``pmbctl list
  nodes``
- :jirabug:`170`: Enable setting the 'stopOnError' attribute in ``mongorestore``
  to ensure consistency of the data being restored.

.. |release| replace:: 0.5.0
.. |date| replace:: June 17, 2019
.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt
