.. _release-notes-1.0.0:

|pbm| |release|
********************************************************************************

|percona| is happy to announce the release of |pbm| |release| on |date|.

|pbm| is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of |mongodb|
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent
backups across a |mongodb| sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for
restoring those backups to a specific point in time. The project was inspired by
(and intends to replace) the Percona-Lab/mongodb_consistent_backup tool.

|pbm| supports `Percona Server for MongoDB
<https://www.percona.com/software/mongo-database/percona-server-for-mongodb>`_
or `MongoDB Community Server
<https://www.mongodb.com/download-center/community>`_ version 3.6 or higher with
`MongoDB replication <https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/replication/>`_
enabled. Binaries for the supported platforms as well as the tarball with source
code are available from the `Percona Backup for MongoDB download page
<https://www.percona.com/downloads/percona-backup-mongodb/>`_. For more
information about |pbm| and the installation steps, see the :ref:`documentation
<pbm.index>`.

|pbm| |release| introduces the new ``pbm config`` command to enable configuring
the store from the command line in addition to the configuration file. This
command effectively replaces `pbm store` which was only able to read store
configuration from the configuration file.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pbm config --set storage.s3.bucket="operator-testing"

New Features
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`PBM-344`: New `pbm config` command to support configuring the store
  from the command line. 

Improvements
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`PBM-361`: Improved the processing of timestamps when using oplog.

Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

- :jirabug:`PBM-214`: ``pbm-agent`` could crash with restore command running
  forever, if the primary node became unavailable during the `restore` operation.
- :jirabug:`PBM-279`: ``pbm-agent`` could be started with an invalid config file.
- :jirabug:`PBM-338`: Backups that failed could appear in the output of the `pbm
  list` command.
- :jirabug:`PBM-362`: The ``pbm backup`` could fail when called from the primary
  node if there were no healthy secondaries.
- :jirabug:`PBM-369`: ReplicaSets could not establish connections when TLS was
  used in the cluster.

.. |release| replace:: 1.1.0
.. |date| replace:: January 16, 2020
.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt
