.. _PBM-1.6.1:

================================================================================
*Percona Backup for MongoDB* 1.6.1
================================================================================

:Date: November 4, 2021
:Installation: `Installing Percona Backup for MongoDB <https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-backup-mongodb/installation.html>`_

Percona Backup for MongoDB is a distributed, low-impact solution for consistent backups of MongoDB
sharded clusters and replica sets. This is a tool for creating consistent backups
across a MongoDB sharded cluster (or a single replica set), and for restoring
those backups to a specific point in time. 

Release Highlights
==================

* Deprecated support for MongoDB 3.6. |PBM| remains compatible with MongoDB 3.6 and |PSMDB| 3.6; however, further enhancements and bug fixes are no longer tested against this version. 
* Improved backup and PITR routines alignment by using sequential ``delete-pitr``/``install-backup`` operations instead of in-memory backup intent. This fixes the inability of a backup to start.
* Added support for automated access to S3 buckets using an EC2 instance profile. When |PBM| is deployed using an EC2 instance, EC2 environment variables and metadata are used for S3 authentication, saving you from explicitly specifying S3 credentials in the |PBM| configuration file. This comes handy for architectures deployed using the services like Amazon EC2, kiam, kube2iam or irsa.  
* Extended logging for ``pbm-agents``. This improves user experience with |PBM|.

Improvements
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PBM-740`: Use AWS EC2 instance profile to simplify access to S3 buckets for PBM



Bugs Fixed
================================================================================

* :jirabug:`PBM-714`: Fix backup and point-in-time recovery routines alignment algorithm to avoid backup failure
* :jirabug:`PBM-722`: Fix ``pbm-agent``'s crash  during the  ``delete-pitr`` request execution if there is nothing to delete (Thanks to Daniel Oliver for reporting this issue)
* :jirabug:`PBM-735`: Fix a possible failure of a PITR catchup process to copy backup slices
* :jirabug:`PBM-712`: Fix an empty time value in JSON formatted log records by using Unix timestamps for time output 

.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt

